pootle.md, before:

---
title: Pootle
---
# Pootle

[Pootle][pootle] is an open source localization and translation server. It
facilitates translation workflows using standard localization formats like PO
and XLIFF, enforces quality checks on translations, shares translations across
projects using Translation Memory, and can even use Machine Translation to seed
new languages.


## Workflow


## Import/export of content

https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/PO-Files.html

For the purposes of Phase I, we loaded in some sample content from [USA.gov's
API](https://platform-api.usa.gov/#!/text_assets/Api_V1_TextAssets_show).

    $ node index.js > templates.pot

This outputs content for a POT file to be used as the template. Rename this to
`templates.pot` and commit it to the [translations
repo](https://github.com/adborden/usa-gov-example-translations).


## Pootle evaluation

### What Pootle features are useful today?

### What features are missing that agencies need today?

### Translation Memory

This is supported out of the box using an external [Translation Memory
service](http://amagama.translatehouse.org/). You can setup an instance of
Elasticsearch for a private TM server instance.

Pootle supports multiple TM servers, so it will keep a local instance up to
date, but can still use an external one for read-only lookups from external
projects.

For projects that wish to have their own Pootle instance, they can share TM by
sharing the external TM server.


### Machine translation

### Email

Pootle sends out emails for registrations and notifications. The settings use an
SMTP configuration.


[pootle]: http://pootle.translatehouse.org/

Commit message:

Move configuration section to Pootle docs

pootle.md, after:

---
title: Pootle
---
# Pootle

[Pootle][pootle] is an open source localization and translation server. It
facilitates translation workflows using standard localization formats like PO
and XLIFF, enforces quality checks on translations, shares translations across
projects using Translation Memory, and can even use Machine Translation to seed
new languages.


## Workflow


## Import/export of content

https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/PO-Files.html

For the purposes of Phase I, we loaded in some sample content from [USA.gov's
API](https://platform-api.usa.gov/#!/text_assets/Api_V1_TextAssets_show).

    $ node index.js > templates.pot

This outputs content for a POT file to be used as the template. Rename this to
`templates.pot` and commit it to the [translations
repo](https://github.com/adborden/usa-gov-example-translations).


## Pootle evaluation

### What Pootle features are useful today?

### What features are missing that agencies need today?

### Translation Memory

This is supported out of the box using an external [Translation Memory
service](http://amagama.translatehouse.org/). You can setup an instance of
Elasticsearch for a private TM server instance.

Pootle supports multiple TM servers, so it will keep a local instance up to
date, but can still use an external one for read-only lookups from external
projects.

For projects that wish to have their own Pootle instance, they can share TM by
sharing the external TM server.


### Machine translation

### Email

Pootle sends out emails for registrations and notifications. The settings use an
SMTP configuration.


## Configuration

### Permissions

By default, Pootle allows anonymous users to suggest translations. Projects may
wish to disable this in the [permissions
settings](https://translate.app.cloud.gov/admin/permissions/). We have disabled
anonymous suggestions for Phase I.


[pootle]: http://pootle.translatehouse.org/
